a linear graph is a line shaped graph
that can be written as y = mx + b m is
the slope for every one unit you go to
the right you rise by m units B
represents the y-coordinate of the Y
intercept which is the point where the
graph crosses the Y AIS this can be
found by setting x equal to 0 in the
equation y = mx + b which gives y = m *
0 + b or y = b because the form y = mx +
b directly gives the slope and the Y
intercept of the graph it is called
slope intercept form a linear function
is a special case of a polom function it
is a first-degree
polom it is also possible to write an
equation for a linear graph given its
slope M and a point that it passes
through X1 comma y1 we begin with the
equation Y =
MX which gives us a line of slope M
passing through the origin we can shift
it vertically by y1 by replacing y with
y -
y1 y - y1 equals
MX then we can shift it horizontally by
X1 by replacing x with x -
X1 y - y1 = M * X x -
X1 overall Shifting the line has the
effect of moving the line to intersect
the point X1 comma y1 where the point X1
comma y1 basically acts like the origin
did this form of the equation is known
as point slope
form the final common form is called
standard form which is ax + b y equals c
where a B and C are integers this form
separates out the variable terms from
the constant term however note that some
linear equations can't be Rewritten in
standard form like y = < tk2 * X linear
equations are used to model variables
with a constant rate of change for
example the acceleration of a falling
object is proportional to the time it
has fallen so the graph of a falling
object's acceleration over time is a
straight
line a quadratic graph comes from a
second degree polinomial function y =
ax^2 + BX + C every quadratic graph is a
parabola which is a roughly U-shaped
curve if a is positive then the parabola
opens upward if a is negative then the
parabola opens downward the greater the
magnitude of a the more sharply the
parabola bends the graph of a quadratic
function can help you find the points
where the function attains a value of
zero often simp simply called the zeros
or roots of the
function equivalently these are the
points where the graph intersects the
x-axis in general for a quadratic
function there are three cases to
consider two xais
intersections the function has two real
valued Zer each with multiplicity one
this also means that the discriminant of
the function B ^2 - 4 a c is positive
the discriminant is the value inside the
sare root in the quadratic formula X =
B+ orus < TK b^ 2 - 4 a c/ 2 a 1 xais
intersection the function has one real
valued zero which has a multiplicity of
two this means the discriminant is equal
to
zero no xais
intersections the function has no real
valued zeros it's zeros exist only in
the complex numbers when this is true
the discriminant is
negative quadratics have many uses in
modeling phenomena in the real world one
of the simplest examples is parabolic
motion a projectile and Airborne object
with no forces acting upon it except
gravity traces out the shape of a
parabola as it flies through the air a
parabola is an example of a conic
section which is roughly speaking the
intersection between an infinitely large
cone and a plane slicing through
it the equation for the graph of a
circle is quantity x - h^ 2 +an y - k^ 2
= R 2 where R is the radius and H comma
K is the center of the
circle this equation can be derived from
the definition of the circle and the
Pythagorean theorem a circle is defined
as the set of all points in a plane that
are at an equal distance the radius from
a given point the center for the
simplest case imagine a circle centered
at the origin draw a radius line segment
from the center of the circle to some
point on the circle this line segment's
length is R now say that the point on
the circle has coordinates X comma y
draw a vertical line segment from that
point to the x-axis then draw a line
segment from the point you reached back
to the origin the three line segments
form a right triangle the lengths of its
legs are X and Y and the length of its
hypotenuse is
R now we can just apply the Pythagorean
theorem x^2 + y^2 = R2 so we know that
this equation captures that particular
point on the
circle but there's nothing special about
the point we choose we can do the exact
same thing for all of the infinitely
many points of the circle
thus x^2 + y^2 = r^2 defines a circle of
radius R centered at the origin to
generalize this so the circle can be
anywhere in the plane we must think
about graph
Transformations replacing x with x - H
shifts the graph H units to the right
within the plane you can think of this
as Shifting the plane to the left while
leaving the graph in place meaning the
graph moved relatively to the right as a
result similarly replacing y with y - K
shifts the graph K units upward so to
Center the circle at the point H comma K
we just have to use the following
equation x - h^ 2 +an y - k^ 2 = r^
2 one important case is the circle of
radius 1 centered at the origin given by
x^2 + y^2 = 1 this circle is the basis
of the trigonometric functions s and
cosine if you start at the right of the
circle and travel some distance Theta
counterclockwise around the unit circle
then sin Theta gives you your
y-coordinate and cine Theta gives you
your x coordinate similarly to a circle
an ellipse is defined using distances
from points in the ellipses case it uses
two points Each of which is called a
focal point or a focus plural being
folai an ellipse is defined as follows
if you choose any point on the ellipse
take the distances from that point to
each of the focal points then add those
distances up you will always get the
same number no matter which point you
choose thus the ellipse is a
generalization of the circle the circle
is simply this special case where the
two focal points are the same point an
ellipse can also be thought of as a
stretched out Circle the equation for an
ellipse centered at the origin with a
width of 2 a and a height of 2 B is x^2
a 2 + y^2 over b^2 = 1 the farthest
points on the ellipse from the center
are called the vertices of the ellipse
and the closest points are called the
co-vertices a line segment from the
center to a Vertex is called a semi
major axis
and one from the center to a co-vertex
is called a semi minor
axis the distance C from the center to a
focus is called the ellipse linear
eccentricity and the value eal C A is
its eccentricity like a parabola an
ellipse is also an example of a conic
section you could slice through a cone
to get an ellipse this is true even in
the special case of a circle a hyperbola
is a curve consisting of two roughly
u-shaped pieces or branches bending away
from each other it can be defined in
various ways including as a conic
section like the parabola and the
ellipse it can also be defined using two
focal points just like the ellipse only
using the absolute difference of the
distances rather than the sum a
hyperbola centered at the origin can be
given the following equations x^2 a 2 -
y^ 2/ b^2 = 1 y^2 a 2 - x^2 / b^2 =
1 this is similar to the equation for
the ellipse but with subtraction instead
of addition if x is in the first term
then the hyperbola opens sideways if Y
is in the first term the hyperbola opens
up and down the two points of the
hyperbola closest to its Center are
called its
vertices the line segment between these
vertices is called the transverse axis
the hyperbola has two ASM tootes where
an ASM toote is a line that you get
closer and closer to as you approach
Infinity the unit hyperbola is the
hyperbola given by x^2 - y^2 = 1 it is
the basis of the hyperbolic functions
hyperbolic s sin H and hyperbolic cosine
cosine H which are analogous to the
ordinary trigonometric functions if you
draw a line segment from the center to a
point on the right half of the unit
hyperbola then the signed area bounded
by the line segment the hyperbola and
the xais is denoted by a / 2 signed area
means that if the area is below the
xaxis it's counted as negative the point
where your line segment hits the unit
circle has coordinates cosine h of a
comma sin h a s and cosine are two of
the basic trigonometric functions they
give the coordinates of a point on the
unit circle given a distance Theta that
it has traveled around the graphs of s
and cosine look like waves and just
swing up and down between - 1 and 1
forever which reflects the function's
cyclical nature waves of this form are
known as sinusoidal waves due to this
swinging Behavior they do not have a
limit as their input reaches
Infinity the period of the sign function
or the amount of time it takes to
complete one cycle is 2 pi this is also
known as to the ratio of a circle
circumference to its radius meaning the
number of times that the radius fits
into the circumference about
6.28 at Theta equal 0 S of theta equal 0
then at Theta = 1/4 to or 1/4 of the way
around the unit circle s of theta
reaches a maximum value of 1 at Theta
equal 1/2 to Halfway Around the unit
circle s of theta returns to zero at at
Theta = 3/4 to sin Theta reaches a
minimum of -1 and at Theta = to all the
way around the unit circle sin Theta is
back to zero again and the S function
has completed a full
cycle similarly the cosine function also
has a period of to at Theta equal 0
cosine of theta = 1 Theta = 1/4 to
cosine Theta equal 0 Theta = 1/2 to
cine thet = 1 thet = 3/4 to cine thet =
0 and Theta equal to cosine Theta = 1 an
exponential function is a function of
the form y = a^ x this can be used to
model either exponential growth or
exponential dek depending on whether a
is greater than or less than one for a
greater than one the function grows as
its input increases it approaches zero
on the left and Rises toward Infinity on
the right meanwhile for 0 less than a
less than 1 the function actually does
the reverse trending downward from
positive Infinity on the left and
decaying asymptotically toward zero on
the right this corresponds to the fact
that repeatedly multiplying a number
bigger than one by itself will give you
a bigger number but for a number less
than one you'll get a smaller
number if you try plugging in a = 1 you
get the function y = 1 to the^ of X
which just reduces to Y = 1 so it
doesn't grow or decay in either
direction you can also plug in AAL 0 to
get y = 0 ^ x this can be broken up into
three parts X greater than 0 x equal to
0 and x less than 0 for X greater than 0
the value of 0 to the^ of X is just 0
meaning the graph for positive X is the
same as yal 0 for X less than 0 the
expression 0 to the^ of X is actually
undefined you can't raise 0 to a
negative power thus the graph actually
doesn't exist for Negative X as for x
equals 0 that would require evaluating 0
to the power of 0 the value of this
expression is actually not universally
agreed upon different people hold it to
have different meanings or different
justifications it is conventionally
either given the value of one or left
undefined so the graph may or may not
include the point 0 comma 1 depending on
the convention
used in calculus the most important
exponential function is y = e to the X
power where e is Oiler
number y = e to the X power also denoted
by exponential X is its own derivative
the rate of change at each point is the
same as the value of the function at
that point D DX of e to x equal e to X
due to this it is also its own
anti-derivative so it can be obtained by
integrating
itself the integral of negative Infinity
tox of e to the T power DT equal e to X
power in terms of the graph of the
function this means that any given point
on the graph the height above the x-axis
the slope of the tangent line and the
area under the curve from negative
Infinity to that point are the exact
same value a logarithm denoted by log is
an inverse function to an exponential
function essentially for any appropriate
a and X log base a of a ^ x = x where a
is called the base of the logarithm in
calculus similarly to how e to the X
power is the most important exponential
function the logarithm with base e is
the most important logarithmic function
this logarithm has a special name the
natural logarithm usually denoted by Ln
other frequently used logarithms are the
common logarithm base 10 and the binary
logarithm base 2 with the latter being
common in computer
science the graph of any inverse
function can be created by taking the
graph of the original function and
reflecting it across the line Y = X if
we use the natural logarithm what we get
is a curve that shoots up from negative
Infinity to the right of xal 0 crosses
the X AIS at xal 1 and then grows more
and more slowly as it goes to the right
however its growth is unbounded so it
will reach arbitrarily High values if
you go far enough to the right we can
also graph the common logarithm which
has a bigger base so it grows more
slowly and the binary logarithm which
has a smaller base so it grows
faster you can also use a base between 0
and one for the logarithm this results
in a graph that plummets from positive
Infinity crosses through the x axis at
xal 1 and decreases more and more
forever if you replace the base of a
logarithm with its reciprocal this is
the effect of flipping the graph across
the x-axis for example the graph of
logarithm base2 of X is just a flipped
version of the graph of logarithm base 2
of
X the natural logarithm is important in
calculus because its derivative is y =
1X correspondingly by integrating this
function you can get to natural log of x
natural log x equals the integral of 1
to X of 1 /t
DT this is one possible definition of
the natural logarithm
[Music]